 

 RENTAL ASSISTANCE: HOW TO GET IT AND KEEP IT GOING
[https://www.fema.gov/fact-sheet/rental-assistance-how-get-it-and-keep-it-going]


Release Date: 
Nov 19, 2024 

Survivors of Hurricane Helene [https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4830] or
Tropical Storm Debby [https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4821] in Georgia
may be eligible for rental assistance for temporary housing through
FEMA’s Individual and Households Program.

FEMA pays rent, including a security deposit, at a place other than
your damaged home. Your rental can be a house, apartment, hotel, or
recreational vehicle that can keep you near your job, home, school,
and place of worship. The assistance may include essential utilities
such as electricity and water, but not cable or Internet.

The approved rental amount will be based on fair market rates for your
area as determined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development.

To continue to receive rental assistance, you must prove an ongoing
need, which may be that suitable housing is not available or that your
permanent housing plan has not been completed through no fault of your
own. If you intend to seek continued rental assistance, you’ll need
receipts to show you used the assistance for rent. Survivors should
keep receipts for three years.

YOU MAY QUALIFY FOR CONTINUED ASSISTANCE IF YOU:

	* Demonstrate your disaster-related financial need; and
	* Show you are developing a longer-term or permanent housing plan or
demonstrate progress toward one. A contractor’s estimate of repairs
can point to progress.

A permanent housing plan is one that would put you back into permanent
safe, sanitary, and functional housing within a reasonable time frame.
You must continue to work toward obtaining permanent housing to remain
eligible for continued rental assistance.

If you have an ongoing need, you must ask for the help to continue.

	* An application for continued rental assistance is normally mailed
to the rental assistance recipient 15 days after the grant is
approved. If you do not receive one, please contact FEMA by calling
800-621-3362 or visiting a disaster recovery center. You can find the
hours and locations at fema.gov/drc [http://www.fema.gov/drc]
	* Return the form to FEMA by either mailing the completed form to:
FEMA, P.O. Box 10055, Hyattsville, MD20782-8055, faxing it to
800-827-8112, or uploading it to your FEMA Disaster Assistance
account, available online at DisasterAssistance.gov
[https://www.disasterassistance.gov/].

Extensions on rental assistance may be granted for three-month periods
up to a maximum of 18 months from the date of the FEMA disaster
declaration.

TO BE ELIGIBLE FOR CONTINUED RENTAL ASSISTANCE, YOU MUST MEET THE
FOLLOWING CONDITIONS:

	* You were awarded initial rental assistance and used it as intended.
	* You are unable to return to your home because it cannot be accessed
or is not suitable to live in due to the disaster.
	* You do not have money for housing without assistance.
	* You are not receiving temporary housing help from any other source.
	* You provide the status of your permanent housing plan.

THE COMPLETED APPLICATION WILL REQUIRE THESE SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS:

	* Current household income.
	* Current lease, utility bill, and renter’s insurance information;
Copy of the lease or rental agreement signed by you and the landlord;
and
	* Rental receipts, cancelled checks or money orders showing the
rental assistance was used to pay for housing expenses.

It is important to keep FEMA updated with your contact information and
housing status. FEMA may need to contact you for additional
information. If your contact information has changed, you should
update your FEMA application immediately. You can do so online at your
DisasterAssistance.gov [https://www.disasterassistance.gov/] account
or by calling 800-621-3362.

_For the latest information about Georgia’s recovery, visit
__fema.gov/helene/georgia_ [https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4830]_ and
__fema.gov/disaster/4821_ [https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4821]_.
Follow FEMA on X at __x.com/femaregion4_ [https://x.com/femaregion4]_
or follow FEMA on social media at: __FEMA Blog_
[https://www.fema.gov/about/news-multimedia/blog]_ on fema.gov,
__@FEMA_ [https://x.com/FEMA]_ or__ @FEMAEspanol_
[https://x.com/FEMAEspanol]_ on X, __FEMA_
[https://www.facebook.com/FEMA]_ or __FEMA Espanol_
[https://www.facebook.com/FEMAespanol]_ on Facebook, __@FEMA _
[https://www.instagram.com/fema]_on Instagram, and via __FEMA YouTube
channel_ [https://www.youtube.com/user/FEMA]_. Also, follow
Administrator Deanne Criswell on X __@FEMA_Deanne_
[https://x.com/FEMA_Deanne]_._
 