 

 USE FEMA GRANTS FOR INTENDED PURPOSE
[https://www.fema.gov/press-release/20241119/use-fema-grants-intended-purpose]


Release Date: 
November 19, 2024 

FEMA reminds Tennesseans in Carter, Cocke, Greene, Hamblen, Hawkins,
Johnson, Unicoi and Washington counties who receive federal disaster
assistance for damage from Tropical Storm Helene to use the money for
its intended purpose and to keep receipts for expenses.

Disaster assistance is intended to help you pay for basic expenses
caused by the disaster. The grants are tax-free and do not need to be
repaid.

A letter explaining what the money is to be used for will arrive
within a day or two of the check or direct deposit payment.

The types of assistance you may be eligible for could include:

	* Home repairs (e.g., structure, water, septic and sewage systems);
	* Rental assistance for a different place to live temporarily;
	* Repair or replacement of a disaster-damaged primary vehicle;
	* Uninsured out-of-pocket medical expenses for an injury caused by
the disaster;
	* Repair or replacement of specialized occupational tools;
	* Essential educational materials (e.g., computers, schoolbooks,
supplies);
	* Moving and storage expenses related to the disaster; or
	* Other disaster-related expenses.

If you spend the grant on anything other than the purpose for which it
is intended, you may be denied future disaster assistance. In some
cases, FEMA may ask you to return the money.

You are urged to keep receipts for your disaster spending for THREE
YEARS to document that you used the money to meet disaster-related
expenses. If you receive an insurance settlement to cover the same
expenses, you must reimburse FEMA, which will conduct audits to
confirm funds were spent properly.

FEMA cannot seize your property or land, even if you are unable to
repay the agency for any duplicated benefits. Applying for disaster
assistance does not grant FEMA or the federal government authority or
ownership of your property or land.

To apply for FEMA assistance, go online to DisasterAssistance.gov
[https://www.disasterassistance.gov/], use the FEMA App
[https://www.fema.gov/about/news-multimedia/mobile-products] or call
the FEMA Helpline at 800-621-3362. If you use a relay service such
as Video Relay Service, captioned telephone or other service, you can
provide FEMA your number for the service. You may also visit a
Disaster Recovery Center. For locations and hours, visit fema.gov/drc
[http://www.fema.gov/drc].

To watch an accessible video on how to apply, visit FEMA Accessible:
Registering for Individual Assistance (youtube.com)
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HhtlyTX49RE].

You may also qualify for a low-interest disaster loan from the U.S.
Small Business Administration. SBA disaster loans are the largest
source of federal recovery funds for homeowners, renters and
businesses of all sizes. To learn more or apply,
visit sba.gov/disaster [http://www.sba.gov/disaster] or call
800-659-2955.

The deadline to apply for disaster assistance is TUESDAY, JAN. 7.
 