 

 VERIFYING YOUR IDENTITY FOR FEMA ASSISTANCE IN SOUTH CAROLINA AFTER
HURRICANE HELENE
[https://www.fema.gov/press-release/20241119/verifying-your-identity-fema-assistance-south-carolina-after-hurricane]


Release Date: 
November 18, 2024 

You do not need identification to start the application process for
FEMA assistance if you were affected by Hurricane Helene. However,
FEMA may need proof of identity, residence and other documentation
before assistance can be paid. 

If FEMA is unable to verify your identity during the application
process, you will be required to submit one of the following
supporting documents:

	* Documentation from the Social Security Administration, or other
federal entity, containing full or last four digits of your Social
Security Number.
	* Social Security card if sent with federal or state-issued
identification.
	* Employer’s payroll document containing full or last four digits
of your SSN.
	* Military identification.
	* Marriage license to confirm proof of maiden name.
	* U.S. passport.

On a case-by-case basis, FEMA may allow applicants residing in U.S.
territories to submit specific identity verification documents, such
as voter registration cards, etc.

Additionally, if you applied for assistance on behalf of a U.S. minor
(child) citizen for your household, you must send FEMA any of the
documents listed above, if in the child’s name, or the child’s
birth certificate. You must also submit a copy of the child’s Social
Security card or documentation from the Social Security
Administration, or other federal entity, containing the full or last
four digits of the child's SSN.

HOW TO APPLY

If you have not applied for FEMA assistance yet, there is still time
to submit your application. Homeowners and renters in Abbeville,
Aiken, Allendale, Anderson, Bamberg, Barnwell, Beaufort, Cherokee,
Chester, Edgefield, Fairfield, Greenville, Greenwood, Hampton, Jasper,
Kershaw, Laurens, Lexington, McCormick, Newberry, Oconee, Orangeburg,
Pickens, Richland, Saluda, Spartanburg, Union and York counties and
the Catawba Indian Nation who were affected by Hurricane Helene are
eligible to apply for FEMA assistance. 

You can apply in several ways: online at DisasterAssistance.gov
[https://www.disasterassistance.gov/], in person at any Disaster
Recovery Center, on your phone using the FEMA mobile app
[https://www.fema.gov/about/news-multimedia/mobile-products] or by
calling the FEMA Helpline. The telephone line is open every day and
help is available in many languages. If you use a relay service, such
as Video Relay Service (VRS), captioned telephone or other service,
give FEMA your number for that service.

For a video with American Sign Language, voiceover and open captions
about how to apply for FEMA assistance, select this link
[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WZGpWI2RCNw].

FEMA programs are accessible to survivors with disabilities and others
with access and functional needs.
 