 

 FEMA ENCOURAGES HURRICANE HELENE SURVIVORS TO CHECK YOUR FURNACE AND
APPLIANCES AS WINTER COMES
[https://www.fema.gov/press-release/20241119/fema-encourages-hurricane-helene-survivors-check-your-furnace-and-appliances]


Release Date: 
November 19, 2024 

BRISTOL, Va.— Winter is on its way to the Blue Ridge Mountains. As
temperatures continue to drop, take this time to check your heating
system, water heater, furnace, and other electrical appliances that
might have been damaged by Hurricane Helene. If your appliance isn’t
working and isn’t covered by your insurance, you may be eligible to
receive help from FEMA to repair or even replace it. 

To apply for FEMA assistance, go online to www.DisasterAssistance.gov
[http://www.disasterassistance.gov/], call 800-621-3362, or use the
FEMA App on your phone. If you use a video relay service or captioned
telephone service, give FEMA your number for the service. For
in-person assistance, visit your local Disaster Recovery Center
[https://egateway.fema.gov/ESF6/DRCLocator]. The registration deadline
is Monday, DECEMBER 2, 2024.

When you apply for assistance, be sure to indicate the furnace and
other essential electrical appliances damaged during the disaster.
FEMA disaster assistance may provide reimbursement for the cost of a
professional and licensed technician’s estimate of the repair or
replacement of these items. If you have already repaired or replaced
these items, you can provide FEMA with valid estimates or receipts.

If you discover your heating system needs replacing after you have
already received a FEMA grant, you can use the FEMA appeals process to
request additional assistance. To learn more about the process, visit
a Disaster Recovery Center [https://fema.gov/drc] for one-on-one
assistance or call the FEMA helpline at 1-800-621-3362. If you choose
to appeal, you must do so within 60 days of the date of your
determination letter.
www.fema.gov/assistance/individual/after-applying/appeals
[http://www.fema.gov/assistance/individual/after-applying/appeals].

Repair and prepare your home before temperatures plummet. Here are
some easy, low-cost tips to keep you safe, more secure, and more
prepared in the face of the cold months ahead:

	* Inspect the exterior of your home to check for cracks or gaps in
your weatherstripping and caulking. Seal any air leaks you detect.
	* Replace furnace and heat pump filters once a month or as needed.
Ensure interior and exterior vents are clean and not obstructed.
	* Clean your gutters of fallen leaves and twigs to allow for proper
drainage for rain and melting snow. Ensure downspouts are draining
away from the foundation of your home.
	* Drain the water from outdoor garden hoses. Disconnect hoses from
faucets and cover the faucets.
	* Clear debris from your roof. Cut back overhanging branches to
prevent damage to shingles and gutters.
	* Check your attic and ceilings for staining from water leakage.
While you’re up there, make sure the attic is properly ventilated to
prevent mold and mildew.

 

For additional guidance on becoming #WinterReady, please visit
https://www.ready.gov/winter-weather.

 

FEMA has set up a rumor response webpage to clarify our role in the
Helene response. Visit Hurricane Helene: Rumor Response | FEMA.gov
[https://u7061146.ct.sendgrid.net/ls/click?upn=u001.gqh-2BaxUzlo7XKIuSly0rC5ZokrnfKywxiNVAnFFAHe1x-2FrWmOVUcGVVjH0DnZ2dpbuxhDpMy2NdQzOIL7BT4d7E-2B6SKU-2FdWxAyr97ztZ5wE-3DBeOL_06TXkUlZUz2uBM-2BF7frkcuxJXmJcfMQ87P9tw9cYG9MEwqXIvFPH6CbTXxKjbF-2BOmHWuoFFV29Oa4l-2FbjH1oTbBKRTiy6G1G9y-2B-2B-2BGMItcJznubSEc8ALn3a7WQ1dEFtG9nKMkJCWsZvVuAYNSWYNygIXn-2F-2FjbbiDnRO6A7eYmCnteTgM-2BGtuMiD5q-2BXmscEByY7gLVE9shUYrI5M0q0Ki9MyWZ4kwm5MARjhx7D0d4NIexdZCrrQs53DFZJLN-2BjbeYY-2FNHf-2BWdkzBy3xFFvuR5Dus8KDJNgqAoVi2x1Zn6qdQYIqAgGG3c2K0d1-2BNCZsw-2FEc6l-2Fj1q88oblcr2dZDoOjmxBJ7FGHi76pGeh888-3D]. 

For more information on Virginia’s disaster recovery,
visit vaemergency.gov [http://vaemergency.gov/],  the Virginia
Department of Emergency Management Facebook page 
[https://www.facebook.com/VAemergency/], fema.gov/disaster/4831
[https://www.fema.gov/disaster/4831] and facebook.com/FEMA
[http://www.facebook.com/FEMA].  

###

_FEMA’s mission is helping people before, during and after
disasters. FEMA Region 3’s jurisdiction includes Delaware, the
District of Columbia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia and West
Virginia. Follow us on X at __x.com/FEMAregion3_
[https://x.com/FEMAregion3]_ and on LinkedIn
at __linkedin.com/company/femaregion3_
[http://www.linkedin.com/company/femaregion3]_._

_To apply for FEMA assistance, please call the FEMA Helpline at
1-800-621-3362, visit __https://www.disasterassistance.gov/_
[https://www.disasterassistance.gov/]_, or download and apply on
the __FEMA App_
[https://www.fema.gov/about/news-multimedia/mobile-products]_. If you
use a relay service, such as video relay service (VRS), captioned
telephone service or others, give FEMA the number for that service.
Multilingual operators are available (press 2 for Spanish and 3 for
other languages). Disaster recovery assistance is available without
regard to race, color, religion, nationality, sex, age, disability,
English proficiency, or economic status. Any disaster survivor or
member of the public may contact the FEMA Civil Rights Office if they
feel that they have a complaint of discrimination.  FEMA’s Civil
Rights Office can be contacted at __FEMA-OCR-ECRD@fema.dhs.gov__ or
toll-free at 833-285-7448._

 

_The Rehabilitation Act of 1973 protects the civil rights of persons
with disabilities. It prohibits discrimination on the basis of
disability by the federal government, federal contractors, and by
recipients of federal financial assistance. Any recipient or
sub-recipient of federal funds is required to make their programs
accessible to individuals with disabilities. Its protections apply to
all programs and businesses receiving any federal funds. This applies
to all elements of physical/architectural, programmatic and
communication accessibility in all services and activities conducted
by or funded by FEMA. FEMA intends to comply with the Rehabilitation
Act in all federally conducted and assisted programs in alignment with
the principals of whole community inclusion and universal
accessibility._
 